OK this is part two of the age to be crash course.
I initially intended it to be one video but I realized it was getting too long and I hate having really
long videos.
So I split it up.
So if you're looking to just jump into the python that will be the next video I promise this one won't
be split.
OK.
So the last thing we talked about were status codes.
Now we're going to talk about HTP verbs and this can be confusing when you first learn about HGP requests
because seems like any request it should work the same way you're sending a request for a you.
Well you're asking for please give me this page you are com slash Samman or please give me the page.
Facebook dot com.
But there's actually a couple of different requests that you can make and the most standard requests
that we that we've talked about the only type of request we've talked about is called a GET request.
And there's another type called a POST request and there's actually a couple of others but the only
two we're going to concern yourself with the two most most fundamental are GET and POST and these are
two types of requests we can make.
Notice when I sent a request to Google dot com slash Hello slash called slash cat even though it failed
see this request method.
Same thing as request verb.
It's set to get and what that means is that I'm trying to retrieve data I'm asking for a web page.
I'm doing a search.
I'm not trying to write data.
I'm not sending data.
I'm not trying to update something.
So a request is for getting information retrieving.
Think of it as just browsing the web.
You go to a dot com you're making a GET request a POST request however would be if you were trying to
submit a new comment on Reddit dot com or you're trying to post a photo to Facebook where you're actually
sending something to the server that then has what's known as a side effect.
So you get request data can be passed in what's known as a query string.
We will discuss that later in a POST request.
You can pass all sorts of data in the request body so you could pass a photo through or you could post
your Facebook status message in a POST request.
But the key difference has to do with side effects.
So what this means is a GET request is you retrieving information saying I would like the contents of
Google dot com slash Sammons search please.
And you're not doing anything to the server you're not adding something to the database you're not sending
any data that is going to be inserted anywhere.
He is only asking for retrieval of info versus if we are posting a comment on Reddit to come I'm actually
sending data along and I'm saying Please add this comment to your database add it to the Web site and
then send me a response.
And that has side effects because you're actually altering something you're changing part of the backend
to other small differences that get requests can be cached post requests can't be get requests can be
bookmarked so any bookmark you have on your browser is a GET request post requests cannot be so tried
to go to YouTube dot com right now I'm making a GET request and oh man there's so many things that loaded
we look into dev tools.
It's pretty crazy.
But if we scroll up to the top Here's my initial request.
It was a GET request I'm just asking for information.
So here's one more example to show that if I go to Facebook dotcom as a GET request which is anything
we're browsing any time I just typed up here it's a GET request.
Let's go to the in the developer tools.
You can see it's a get butts over here.
I tried to sign up with.
I knew this would fail.
So I'm not trying to game Facebook.
They have a that you can't have a one letter name.
So I put a one letter name in here and it treats it like I'm trying to register.
Right.
It sends a request to the server but then the server is going to say oh you can't do that.
That's not allowed.
Like you know you need to have a longer name but it still gets to the server.
And this information is sent to the server as part of a post request and it's right here.
So register and if you look at the response the response is not in him.
So we will talk about this later on in a minute.
But the response is something called Jason.
And if we look at it it says error message first or last names on Facebook.
Can't be too short which is what I got up here so we'll talk about why that is and what I really want
to focus on is that a post request was generated when I tried to sign up.
So hopefully you can see the difference a get request is me retrieving a page like going to Facebook
or just asking for the sign up page.
But then when I actually try and send data it's actually sending a post request so two differences and
from python we can do both.
A lot of what we'll be doing and a lot of most projects not most but a lot of projects that will do
involve retrieving data getting new stories getting jokes.
We're just asking for information getting the weather but we're also capable of sending post requests
through python.
So how we would do that.
Most of the time through an API.
OK so now let's talk about what the heck is an API.
OK so API stands for application programming interface.
You've probably heard the term before.
If you've just done any research around web development or tech it's kind of a word you hear a lot and
all that it really means is it's a version of a web site intended for computers to talk between computers
or between code.
So were the Web sites we see right this is designed for a human to look at those buttons there's icons
or big text little fields and colors.
But if I'm sending code to find the information on this page there's not much information here there
is maybe I don't know 200 words.
That's probably generous not sure.
Anyway there's a couple hundred 200 words and that's it.
And if I just wanted that information or here I have read it Dot.
Hope nothing bad.
Open right now but I'm looking at here is a version of the web site intended for humans to look at.
And those photos there's bigger text all the stuff we already talked about including ads as well.
But as far as the information itself there's not that much here.
So this is not an API.
This is a human interface.
So Reddit has a version of their web site intended for computers a k an API.
If I just tack on Slashdot song and I hit Enter this is the exact same information that we saw on this
page.
But it's not presented for humans like it is here as part of HVM I'll remember if I do view developer
view source the actual age him that sent back is kind of massive.
There's a lot of extra stuff.
But if we look at the API version there's still a lot here definitely a lot but it's more condensed
and it doesn't contain all the information for making things bold or making things blue or whatever
it is.
So this is called an API.
So API wise just allow us to write code that can get data from another application without having to
understand how the application works without having to be human.
We can just transfer data back and forth with another Web site in a really easy way.
That's all an API is.
So lots of Web sites have API.
Good job has one that allows you to you know write code that can make a new repository.
Spotify has one.
You can write code in Python that uses the API to retrieve a list of your playlists or probably seen
that you sign up for a web site through Facebook the only way that works is that Facebook has an API
to allow that.
So the whole point where we're going with this is that we'll write Python code to send a request to
you.
Well let's say whether dot com.
And if I go to whether dot com in my browser as you know a human is going to give me a page with ads
and big photos and colors and who knows what else.
Now Barb javascript effects and animations a bunch of extra stuff.
But if I'm just trying to build an app that displays the current temperature in you know San Francisco
or Shanghai or something.
All I want is a little bit of data to come back that says something like temp
is I don't know 78 something like this Fahrenheit and that's ideally what I'd want but this is a very
simplified.
But if we sent a request to the correct weather dot com API which could be something like Slash API
it's not always.
Sometimes there are separate Web sites like API out whether dot com.
So this is hypothetical but if I sent to if I sent a request to this particular place which is only
intended for code and other computers to talk to I could get a cool response like this where my Python
code can just take this and immediately do something with it rather than if I send a request to the
dot com not to the API.
And I look at what the response is imagine getting all of this back and having to deal with it in python.
This could all be stored in a variable where would you even start.
It's crazy.
And that leads us to another topic cobwebbed web scraping which we talk about later in the course.
So instead an API allows us to say hey we're a computer.
We just want the information please send it back in a format that we care about.
And there's a couple of formats there called Jason and ex-MIL.
JASON OM stands for javascript object notation.
If you don't know javascript don't fret about it it's just a standard data format nowadays.
SML used to be the standard but now Jaison is the reigning king or queen.
OK so this has been an insane crash course.
I hope 15 20 percent of the stuck the key things we can send requests and get responses in the browser.
We can do the same thing with Python.
We'll see in the next video.
And at the end of the day we specify what format we want back and certain Web sites have API eyes that
allow us to say I want this but don't give me the time I'll give me the simplified version.
In Jaison and that's what we're going to focus on in the next video in the next couple of videos is
interacting with Web sites that have API API or like the special secret door.
Not really a secret but a special door back entrance into a server that our code can take advantage
of.
Ok I really apologize for how long this is.
There's just a lot to cover.
If you are new to web development and to just the internet in general I can imagine that was pretty
overwhelming.
You do not need to understand all of that.
Not even close.
So like I said 10 15 percent.
That's OK.
I just want you to have heard these words before we start talking about them in Python.